=logs php & javascript errors, exceptions & slow queries=

==News==
===Status of the project===
20. January 2012: A small but long due addition has been made: '''Fatal and syntax errors are logged''' via register_shutdown_function! Get Monitorix 1.2 now!

20. September 2011: Version 1.1.0 (final) is available and includes '''Javascript Error Logging'''. See featured downloads and see instructions: HowToUseTheComponent

15. September 2011: We have been using Monitorix for all of our apps since May. Thanks to this, application monitoring has become much easier and faster.

20. March 2011: Project launch

==Features==
Monitorix is supposed to offer a *light but free* alternative to the commercial monitoring solution integrated in Zend Server.

===Current Features===
* easy setup and integration with your existing Zend Framework applications
* minimal bootstrapping and configuration
* simple message logging
* automated logging of php errors (optional)
* '''NEW''': automated logging of fatal php errors (optional)
* automated logging of uncaught exceptions (optional)
* automated logging of slow database queries (optional)
* '''NEW''': automated logging of javascript errors (optional)
* one central database for all your projects and environments
* fully unit tested

===Planned===
* add context information for slow queries
* provide setup from config
* aggregation of similar or same data for easier overview
* web GUI for convenient analyses of logged data 

===Suggested by the community===
* Log to mail


==Dependencies==
Needed ZF components:
* Zend_Log (monitorix extends Zend_Log)
* Zend_Db (for obvious reasons)
* Zend_Log_Writer_Db (injected through constructor)
* Zend_Registry (monitoring instance is saved to registry)
Needed for Exception logging:
* Zend_Controller_Front (for plugin registration)
* Zend_Exception

Needed for slow query logging:
* Zend_Controller_Front (for plugin registration)
* Zend_Db_Profiler

Needed for javascript error logging:
* ZendX_JQuery or your own implementation of jQuery (more specifially, the jQuery Ajax plugin is needed.)

Needed for running the unit tests:
* Full version of Zend Framework
* phpUnit
* [https://github.com/padraic/mockery Mockery]


==Installation and usage==
Find instructions [https://github.com/markushausammann/monitorix/blob/master/HOW-TO-USE.mediawiki here].


==Contributions==
This project is developed by the team of www.cloud-solutions.net.

Additional contributions have been made by:
* Ritesh Kumar Sahu - Fatal error logging through use of register_shutdown_function

You're welcome to contribute to the component! Just contact us, if you're interested!